---
layout: post
title: Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance Review
asset_path: /assets/images/posts/zen/
---

The entire book includes three different storylines: Phaedrus, the younger version of Pirsig, Pirsig's real experiences during his trip across the midwest, and his Chautauqua’s, lessons about life that are woven into the story. Phaedrus thinks about Quality in his classroom when he’s trying to find the right way to grade his students’ work. He compares two essays and asks which one holds more Quality. Obviously or not, there is one that is better than the other, but where does this “betterness” come from? Without the essay, what holds that quality? If it’s purely subjective to that essay, how can it also seem almost objective to any group of people? This conflict shows that Quality can be categorized as both subjective or objective, but not both at the same time. The only time someone experiences pure quality is the moment they see something of it, but before they notice what it is. For example, the time in between seeing a beautiful motorcycle and knowing it’s a motorcycle. At this moment, there is some feeling before the quality or initial thoughts connect with an object. Another example is when reading a beautiful essay written by a student, but before realizing who that student is. This essay has its quality that doesn’t belong yet, but when it does, this subjective feeling mixes with an almost objective human. If the moment in between can be captured, it would serve as how we can grade students. But it can’t. There could be a thousand different factors that tug and influence the decision, which can’t be replicable by another teacher since replicating that moment would require all those same factors in place, making their decision purely subjective and not based on Quality. As a professor at a college, Phaedrus also blames the grading system for showcasing Quality work by grades instead of effort and passion. As the prior paragraph had explained, the thought of how good something is is purely subjective, thus criticizing based on a subjective measure is harmful. Establishing a measure that uses Quality, a measure both subjective and objective can create a fair and motivating environment. This change requires there to be no grades and a place for motivated people who seek knowledge gained through degrees and classes. A system like this would work in a university where students have already found their passion, but in a high school, nuh-uh. There are all sorts of people who may not know their career path or passion, either because they haven’t found it or don’t care, and for those students, grades are the only things they’re hanging onto. They need an objective measure to obey to get any sense of Quality. Relying purely on a measure of Quality cannot work as there is no subjectivity, thus I disagree with Pirsig. He also believes that the causes of the problems we have with technology are because of the lack of connection between the creator and the product. Creating a smartphone is not done individually with care for imperfect parts and tweaks like in the pre-industrial era, but done collectively with not much care for the details but for the profits, it can produce. He says that there is a loss of Quality as there is no enthusiasm or deep passion when looking at the creation of products at the individual level. Workers who just want to get enough money to survive may not produce a product at the level of even a single human who is truly passionate about that subject. Although this claim seems right for work such as motorcycle maintenance in the American Midwest, it surely cannot stack up against the current system used in most manufacturing. A special example is the creation of Facebook as the first social media company that used advertisement and customer data to gain revenue. This model relied on the pure subjectivity of customers and their freedom to see and interact with what they want, so the Quality being transported is from people to people over a virtual medium, instead of a person to an object physically. The first problem is that a user doesn’t have much attachment to what they’re sending or posting, thus they don’t care about the lack of Quality. They create money out of personalization and freedom, creating the purest Quality subjectively, but none that can be objectively measured. There can’t even be a measure of satisfaction in the individual product level in Facebook’s business, unlike the happiness gained by a new iPhone that can be measured through surveys and blogs.

All in all, I enjoyed the story and its sneaky connections with philosophical ideas. At times Pirsig did go into the technicalities of motorcycles for it to be skippable but the entire journey seems very obedient to the topics he presents.