---
layout: post
title: Man's Search for Meaning Review
asset_path: /assets/images/posts/mans-search/
---

Victor Frankl had a unique way of writing Man’s Search for Meaning. Instead of focusing on developing some wholesome story that explicitly connects, he lists the individual experiences he had in Auschwitz and eventually how they connected. Before entering the camp, he had just created logotherapy, literally therapy using the idea of meaning. Understanding what his patients went through, entering the camp was like a lab experiment, but for himself. He lived through near-fatal conditions not because he was physically or mentally stronger than anyone else, but because he had almost a superconsciousness. He could observe the stages of development of the people around him, provide consolation and advice to homeless people, and know how to react and adapt to the environment everyone’s uncomfortable with: he was “built different”. He sees meaning represented as the passion for work and the growth of a cause; the love of relationships and people; and suffering causing desperation for meaning. The first two examples are the base meaning or the topics that someone’s meaning WILL fall into. These forms of satisfaction aren’t always formed or thought of naturally, as we humans are already caught up with distractions that seem to give us some meaning, but in reality, it addicts us making us feel bad. How we can realize the purpose is by suffering, since it gets us to the point where attaining a basic state of consciousness or even satisfaction needs a “why” behind it. Frankl uses his experiences to teach his idea of logotherapy after he is liberated, as that is what he feels needs to do for this world. For those who haven’t found this only WHY, they died from any HOW. Some were expecting to get released on Christmas, but they were proved wrong and died from despair. The most important conclusion Frankl came to think was that it was a choice on how to exist in Auschwitz. This conclusion is biased and misleading; what separates people who suffer from those who suffer but find out the truth and survive? Some people still thought they could survive just by living by the rules through their own, human, willpower, but things were different. To carry out basic life functions, challenges are needed to be overcome and a “how” is posed. This might not have been fair, like stealing bread from a cellmate to not starve to death or hiding under manure to avoid death, maybe that being the day before concentration camps were made illegal. But why could these people think in such a way? Frankl posits a change given a self-image and the perception of someone’s role in that environment. There isn’t a way in which people can freely decide how they want to act, like either being the (too) nice guy in a concentration camp or at work, but a change results from the perception of one’s niche. There needs to be a vision of the impact of actions on a community without looking forward to it. What to look forward to is the gradual filling of meaning, instead of any societal or physical notice of oneself. The latter can be explained as the feeling of physical freedom in Auschwitz, but maybe fame or monetary wealth in the “normal” world. This entire shift in logos can only occur if there is a clear meaning to concentrate, else it is all for nothing.